hey game david henrie from inspired
tennis I want to shoot a quick video
tonight to talk about stringing of
crosses from top to bottom okay so i did
a video earlier this week about some
tips on faster cross reading and in that
video i mentioned that i always string
Mike Ross's top to bottom okay and I got
a couple of questions from people about
why do I always do that in fact one guy
had asked me a question on youtube
comment and so I told him last night
that it was a little bit too complicated
to cover in a comment so that I would do
a video about it okay so that's what I'm
doing here tonight is talk about why I
always string my crosses from top to
bottom okay and the reason is well let
me let me first say that I am NOT any
type of engineer don't have any sort of
structural engineering background okay i
tend to base my decisions more on just
simple logic and intuition and basically
what just makes sense to me and so
stringing crosses top to bottom is kind
of a good practice or a best practice in
the stringing community and the reason
that it's been explained to me is
because when if you string your crosses
top to bottom when you're getting close
to finishing off your crosses you've got
all your main is done and most your
crosses and there's a lot of stress and
pressure on the frame from all the
tension that's already in place for the
strings you've already done and it's
putting a lot of pressure down here on
the frame but because it's down here at
the throat area of the frame you've got
a lot more support okay you've got the
whole throat area kind of supporting
this hoop so you know the pressure and
stress and tension that is putting on
there it's being supported by the other
part of the frame whereas up here on the
hoop portion of the frame there's
obviously not a throat and there's no
other parts of the racket supporting it
it's just this hoop all by itself and so
if you string your crosses bottom to the
top that can put a lot of pressure up
here on the hoop and you may risk
breaking the frame or work
okay and so that's kind of the reason
that I've always understood ever since i
first started streaming as to why you
never want to do bottom to top crosses
okay now um you know I've got my my
united states tits trainers association
now stringers digests that i always use
and in here it's got patterns for almost
every racket in existence and the u.s.
RSA is great about abiding by what the
manufacturer of the frame says for the
pattern okay and there are some
manufacturers out there head for example
comes to mind a lot of the patterns for
the head racquets the mains end at the
throat down here at the bottom of the
throat so um head doesn't want people
then starting at the throat and
stringing the crosses to the top because
of that probably that pressure and
stress on the hoop so head for a lot of
their frames where the means and down
here the throat they recommend only a
two-piece pattern so you strength all
the mains with one piece of string and
tie them off down here at the throat and
then you start your crosses with the
second piece of string up here at the
top and you string your crosses top to
bottom okay Wilson on the other hand a
lot of their frames and I think even
some Babylon ones a lot of their friends
the mains end down here at the throat
and they say it's okay to do one piece
to do them top our bottom to top okay
but even on Wilson and babble offerings
or any other frame for that matter where
the mains end at the throat I never do
bottom to top crosses I always do top to
bottom okay and so really when you're
when you're dealing with different
different frame patterns I mean you kind
of have three options okay you can do a
one piece traditional pattern that's
what I actually use on this racket okay
so I strength half the mains and tie
them off and then the other half the
mains with the long side basically I do
half the mains and then I do all my
crosses but risen this is kind of just a
one piece traditional pattern is because
the mains on this racket end at the end
at the top so I'm already up here so I
time one off the top
on my short side and then on my long
side my string i'm already up here at
the top so i just start my crosses and
work down really simple nothing to worry
about but then when you've got a pattern
where the means end of the throat then
you've got to decide if you assuming you
don't want to do bottom to top crosses
which i never do then you've got two
options of what you can do you can first
you can do a two-piece pattern so again
you have two pieces of string you do all
your mains with one piece and tie them
off and you start your crosses with the
second piece of string at the top string
them top down and then tie off your your
buff your end of your crosses down here
at the bottom okay so that's one option
is to do it to peace another option is
to do what's called and around the world
pattern or a lot of times you'll see
that referred to as an 80 w pattern and
there's several different versions of an
around-the-world pattern just kind of
we're strangers can kind of get creative
with an around-the-world pattern but
basically the whole premise of it is to
use string string your mains and then
you make sure that your mains are at the
top so maybe like in one pattern that i
use called the dire desire around the
world pattern I string all my mains but
I leave off the last mean on each side
so that moves that since I've left off
the last main that means that I'm up
here at the top with my string so I can
do a cross with one tie it off and then
I've got the other other pieces of the
main here to do my crosses top to bottom
and then basically then you're kind of
left with those last two mins that you
got to finish so basically that's where
the name of the pattern comes in so I
kind of do my last cross and then
basically I have to go around the world
so I have to string the last main string
or cross up here and string the last me
on this side okay so I'm not going to
get into an around-the-world pattern all
the little intricacies of it in this
video on my I learned to string DVD
course I cover the dire desire around
the world pattern in great detail or
I've got the camera mounted above
screaming machine here and I show every
every step of the way then there's also
some other good videos out there on
YouTube that'll show you around the
world patterns au littles got a bunch of
videos yul itle you can look up his cam
he's got a lot of great videos as well
on that so anyway though that's the
reason why first of all why I do top to
bottom cross as always and then kind of
give you a couple of ways of how you can
do that by two piece pattern around the
world pattern so gang I hope that does
does it justice and answers a question
and explains things so if you kept a
good understanding of that if not feel
free to let shoot me a comment shoot me
an email get in touch with me some way
and i'll see if i can answer some things
in more detail ok so anyway that is all
i have for tonight thanks for checking
in